README.md, before:

# proxypool
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dogestreet/proxypool.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dogestreet/proxypool)

A Stratum to Stratum proxy pool. Released under AGPL-V3.

`proxypool` is a pool server that splits work from an upstream pool server and redistributes them to its miners, handling both share submission and sharelogging for it's patrons.

Hosted on [Doge Street mining pool](http://doge.st)

## Features ##

 * Vardiff
 * Address validation
 * Redis pubsub for share logging

Currently only Scrypt is supported for upstream servers.
The source does not yet include the [CPPSRB](http://eligius.st/~gateway/faq/simple-terms-what-summary-cppsrb) payout scripts, it will be released once they are cleaned up and thoroughly tested.

## How it works (how to proxy Stratrum) ##
The main problem to solve is how to generate unique work for every proxypool client.

The idea is to reduce the size of `extraNonce2` so that the server controls the first few bytes. This means that server will be able to generate a unique coinbase for each client, mutating the coinbase hash.

This reduces the block search space for clients. However, the impact is negligible. With a 4 byte upstream `extraNonce2`, and with the proxypool server keeping 2 bytes for itself (clients get the other 2). This allows the server to have 65536 concurrent connections and clients to have a maximum hashrate of 2^32 x 2^16, or 256 tera hashes per second, which is more than enough for Scrypt based coins at the time of writing.

Upon client share submission, the server checks that the share matches the required upstream difficulty and resubmits it under it's own name.

## Installation ##
Hackage package coming soon.

`cabal` >= 1.18 is recommended since since it includes package sandbox support.
To build:

    $ cabal sandbox init
    $ cabal configure
    $ cabal build

## Configuration ##
All configuration is done in `proxypool.json`. Most options should be self explanatory.

### Address validation ###
The proxypool implements the proper address validation algorithm for public keys. Since different coins prepend a different byte to the checksum, this option is configurable in `publicKeyByte`. It is expected that miners use their payout address as their username in their mining client. The server does not check passwords.

### Nonce ###
`extraNonce2Size` and `extraNonce3Size` control the how the upstream's `extraNonce2` is split. Thus `extraNonce2Size` and `extraNonce3Size` should add up the to the upstream's `extraNonce2`'s size.

### Vardiff control ###
Variable difficulty allows the server to dynamically adjust share difficulty for clients, improving miner efficency and reducing server load. Difficulty adjustments happen every `vardiffRetargetTime` or if the client has submitted `vardiffShares` in `vardiffRetargetTime`.

| Vardiff                | Configuration
| -----------------------|------------------------
| `vardiffRetargetTime`  | How long in seconds before the server changes the clients's share difficulty
| `vardiffTarget`        | How many shares should be submitted in `vardiffRetargetTime`
| `vardiffAllowance`     | How much under/over target is tolerated, 0.25 = 25%
| `vardiffMin`           | The minimum share difficulty
| `vardiffInitial`       | The initial share difficulty
| `vardiffShares`        | The number of shares submitted in `vardiffRetargetTime` before a difficulty adjustment is forced

### Invalid share kicks ###
Since the proxy pool validates shares before submitting to the upstream, profiling results show that checking shares consume around 50% of the server's CPU time. A malicious client sending invalid shares can cause a denial of service for the pool server. The server disconnects a client if they submit over 90% dead shares.

## References ##
 * [Stratum protocol specifications](https://mining.bitcoin.cz/stratum-mining)
 * [Stratum protocol description from BTCGuild](https://www.btcguild.com/new_protocol.php)

Commit message:

Cleaned up code involving extraNonce1, identified problem with cgminer 3.7.2
In cgminer 3.7.2 (cgminer.c:6058) "memcpy(pool->coinbase +
pool->nonce2_offset, &pool->nonce2, sizeof(uint32_t))"

This line is flawed because the size of nonce2 is not always uint32_t,
in the most common proxypool usage, it is set to 2. Thus when it copys
2 extra bytes, a part of the coinbase is over written with the higher
two bytes of pool->nonce2. This does not cause a problem (luckly) with
P2Pool since the coinbase2 is always set to "00000000", thus only if the
miner is faster than 256 tera herz will it start to cause a problem.

However, other pool software does not use pure zeros for coinbase2, thus
causing all submitted shares to be invalid on cgminer 3.7.2

README.md, after:

# proxypool
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dogestreet/proxypool.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dogestreet/proxypool)

A Stratum to Stratum proxy pool. Released under AGPL-V3.

`proxypool` is a pool server that splits work from an upstream pool server and redistributes them to its miners, handling both share submission and sharelogging for it's patrons.

Hosted on [Doge Street mining pool](http://doge.st)
Donations :) DGJucYFxGt84y2YQEyskGVpg5aJ8vKTVtb

## Compatibility ##
There is a bug in cgminer v3.7.2 that incorrectly assumes the `extraNonce2` field is always 4 bytes long, this results in some parts of the `coinbase2` being overwritten by the nonce rendering all submitted work invalid. This only affects upstream servers that have `coinbase2` as non zero values. P2Pool is not affected.

If you are running a pool server that is using non zero values in `coinbase2` (such as `stratum-mining`), please ask your miners to upgrade to the latest `cgminer` or `sgminer`.

## Features ##

 * Vardiff
 * Address validation
 * Redis pubsub for share logging

Currently only Scrypt is supported for upstream servers.
The source does not yet include the [CPPSRB](http://eligius.st/~gateway/faq/simple-terms-what-summary-cppsrb) payout scripts, it will be released once they are cleaned up and thoroughly tested.

## How it works (how to proxy Stratrum) ##
The main problem to solve is how to generate unique work for every proxypool client.

The idea is to reduce the size of `extraNonce2` so that the server controls the first few bytes. This means that server will be able to generate a unique coinbase for each client, mutating the coinbase hash.

This reduces the block search space for clients. However, the impact is negligible. With a 4 byte upstream `extraNonce2`, and with the proxypool server keeping 2 bytes for itself (clients get the other 2). This allows the server to have 65536 concurrent connections and clients to have a maximum hashrate of 2^32 x 2^16, or 256 tera hashes per second, which is more than enough for Scrypt based coins at the time of writing.

Upon client share submission, the server checks that the share matches the required upstream difficulty and resubmits it under it's own name.

## Installation ##
Hackage package coming soon.

`cabal` >= 1.18 is recommended since since it includes package sandbox support.
To build:

    $ cabal sandbox init
    $ cabal configure
    $ cabal build

## Configuration ##
All configuration is done in `proxypool.json`. Most options should be self explanatory.

### Address validation ###
The proxypool implements the proper address validation algorithm for public keys. Since different coins prepend a different byte to the checksum, this option is configurable in `publicKeyByte`. It is expected that miners use their payout address as their username in their mining client. The server does not check passwords.

### Nonce ###
`extraNonce2Size` and `extraNonce3Size` control the how the upstream's `extraNonce2` is split. Thus `extraNonce2Size` and `extraNonce3Size` should add up the to the upstream's `extraNonce2`'s size.

### Vardiff control ###
Variable difficulty allows the server to dynamically adjust share difficulty for clients, improving miner efficency and reducing server load. Difficulty adjustments happen every `vardiffRetargetTime` or if the client has submitted `vardiffShares` in `vardiffRetargetTime`.

| Vardiff                | Configuration
| -----------------------|------------------------
| `vardiffRetargetTime`  | How long in seconds before the server changes the clients's share difficulty
| `vardiffTarget`        | How many shares should be submitted in `vardiffRetargetTime`
| `vardiffAllowance`     | How much under/over target is tolerated, 0.25 = 25%
| `vardiffMin`           | The minimum share difficulty
| `vardiffInitial`       | The initial share difficulty
| `vardiffShares`        | The number of shares submitted in `vardiffRetargetTime` before a difficulty adjustment is forced

### Invalid share kicks ###
Since the proxy pool validates shares before submitting to the upstream, profiling results show that checking shares consume around 50% of the server's CPU time. A malicious client sending invalid shares can cause a denial of service for the pool server. The server disconnects a client if they submit over 90% dead shares.

## References ##
 * [Stratum protocol specifications](https://mining.bitcoin.cz/stratum-mining)
 * [Stratum protocol description from BTCGuild](https://www.btcguild.com/new_protocol.php)
